---
layout: archive
title: "Introduction to Neural Networks and Deep Learning"
permalink: /EEL6812/
redirect_from:
  - /teaching
---


---
EEL6812 (Spring 2026) <br>
Department of ECE <br>
University of Central Florida<br>
Orlando, FL, USA<br>

## Instructor and TA information

**Instructor:** <span style="font-weight: normal;">[Shahana Ibrahim](https://shahana-ibrahim.github.io/)</span>
- **Email:** [shahana.ibrahim@ucf.edu](mailto:shahana.ibrahim@ucf.edu)
- **Class Hours:** Monday and Wednesday 1:30-2.45PM
- **Class Location:** CB1 O218
- **Office Hours:** Monday and Wednesday 3-4:30PM
- **Office Location:** UCF Global 224

**TA**: [Tarhib Al Azad](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=FFpK8ZAAAAAJ&hl=en)
  - **Email:** [tarhibal.azad@ucf.edu](mailto:tarhibal.azad@ucf.edu)
  - **Office hours:** TBD



## Description

This course introduces the basics of neural networks and deep learning in a rigorous way. The aim is to open doors to the vast world of deep learning, understand its strengths, challenges, potential risks, usefulness to the humankind for a wide spectrum of applications. In addition, the students are expected to grasp the fundamentals in designing a deep learning model and learn to adapt it for their own research purposes. The course materials would be designed accordingly such that deep learning research in multidisciplinary domains are benefitted. 

## Reference Textbooks

- Ian Goodfellow and Yoshua Bengio and Aaron Courville. **Deep Learning**. An MIT Press book. 2016
- Charu C. Aggarwal. [**Neural Networks and Deep Learning: A Textbook**](https://rd.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-319-94463-0). Springer. 2019
- [Dive into Deep Learning](https://d2l.ai/)

## Grading
- Assignments 30%, Quiz 10%, Final 60%.

## Lecture Schedule

Lecture slides will be posted on the course website before each lecture. *The instructor reserves the right to alter this schedule as needed.*


|# Week | Dates | Lecture Topics | Resources | Homeworks | Quiz | Project |
|-------|-------|----------------|--------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
| 1 |  Jan 12, 14 | Introduction | | | | |





